=head1 NAME

C<RNAz> - Detecting stable and conserved RNA secondary structures in
multiple sequence alignments.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 RNAz [options] [file]

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-f>, B<--forward>

=item B<-r>, B<--reverse>

=item B<-b>, B<--both-strands>

Scores the forward direction, the reverse complement or both. By default
only the forward direction as given in the input alignment is scored.

=item B<-o> NAME, B<--outfile>=NAME

Stores the output in a file. By default the output is printed to the
standard output.

=item B<-p> X, B<--cutoff>=X

Only show results with RNA class probability P > X. (Default: 0.5)

=item B<-g>, B<--show-gaps>

Print the output including gaps. Useful if the alignment wants to be
recovered from the RNAz output. (Default: off)

=item B<-m>, B<--mononucleotide>

=item B<-d>, B<--dinucleotide>

Background model used to calculate z-scores. Default is dinucleotide
content. Setting this option to mononucleotide will use the same
models used RNAz 1.0 and prior versions. 

=item B<-n>, B<--no-shuffle>

If a z-score cannot be calculated efficiently because sequence
characteristics are out of range (i.e. base composition too biased or
sequence too short), RNAz will use a slow empirical shuffling
procedure to determine the z-score. This can slow down screens
considerably and can be turned off with this option.

=item B<-l>, B<--locarnate>

Assumes input alignments to be structurally aligned using LocaRNA
(experimental feature).

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Prints version information and exits.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Prints a brief help message and exits.

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<RNAz> detects stable and conserved RNA secondary structures in multiple
sequence alignments. It calculates two independent scores for structural
conservation (the structure conservation index SCI) and for thermodynamical
stability (the z-score). High structural conservation (high SCI) and
thermodynamical stability (negative z-scores) are typical features of
functional RNAs (e.g. noncoding RNAs or cis-acting regulatory
elements). RNAz uses both scores to classify a given alignment as
functional RNA or not. It uses a support vector machine classification
procedure which estimates a class-probability which can be used as
convenient overall-score.

C<RNAz> reads one or more alignments in CLUSTAL W or MAF format from a file
or standard input and prints the results to the standard output. 

Please refer to the files README and manual.pdf for full documentation.

=head1 AUTHORS

Stefan Washietl <wash@mit.edu>

Andreas Gruber <agruber@tbi.univie.ac.at>

Ivo Hofacker <ivo@tbi.univie.ac.at>

Kristin Missal <missal@izbi.uni-leipzig.de>

=cut
